integrating Service Mesh with cert-manager and istio-csr (#342)
openshift-service-mesh/sail-operator: docs/ossm/cert-manager/README.md

[Return to OSSM Docs](../)

# OpenShift Service Mesh and cert-manager

The cert-manager tool is a solution for X.509 certificate management on Kubernetes. It delivers a unified API to integrate applications with private or public key infrastructure (PKI), such as Vault, Google Cloud Certificate Authority Service, Let’s Encrypt, and other providers.

> [!NOTE]
> The cert-manager Operator must be installed before you create and install your Istio resource.

The cert-manager tool ensures the certificates are valid and up-to-date by attempting to renew certificates at a configured time before they expire.

## About integrating Service Mesh with cert-manager and istio-csr

> [!NOTE]

> > Istio-CSR integration for cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

Author: For this one I couldn't find a reasonable explanation. If its ok we can keep it until Istio-CSR to GA or I can add something like:
`Red Hat provides support for integrating with istio-csr and cert-manager. Istio-CSR integration for cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.`

> > Istio-CSR integration for cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

Author: I want to state istioCSR integration to cert-manager is tech preview but not sure how to state it here.

    - Create the `apps-1` and `apps-2` namespace.

      ```sh
      oc new-project apps-1
      oc new-project apps-2
      ```

    - Enable istio-injection on namespaces

      ```sh
      oc label namespaces apps-1 istio-injection=enabled
      oc label namespaces apps-2 istio-injection=enabled
      ```

    - Deploy `httpbin` app in namespaces

      ```sh
      oc apply -n apps-1 -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-service-mesh/istio/release-1.24/samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
      oc apply -n apps-2 -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-service-mesh/istio/release-1.24/samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
      ```

    - Deploy `sleep` app in namespaces

      ```sh
      oc apply -n apps-1 -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-service-mesh/istio/release-1.24/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
      oc apply -n apps-2 -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-service-mesh/istio/release-1.24/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
      ```

    - Verify created apps have sidecars injected

      ```sh
      oc get pods -n apps-1
      oc get pods -n apps-2
      ```

    - Create a mesh-wide strict mTLS policy:

      > [!NOTE]

>       > We are enabling PeerAuthentication with strict mTLS mode to be sure that the certificates are obtained from istio-proxy pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      > We are enabling PeerAuthentication with strict mTLS mode to show that the certificates are distributed correctly so the mTLS between workloads works.
```

      oc apply -f peer_auth.yaml
      ```

    - Verify that sleep can access the httpbin service:
    - Verify that apps-1/sleep can access the apps-2/httpbin service:

      ```sh
      oc exec "$(oc get pod -l app=sleep -n sample \
        -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n sample -- \
        curl http://httpbin.sample:8000/ip -s -o /dev/null \
        -w "%{http_code}\n"
      oc -n apps-1 exec "$(oc -n apps-1 get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -- curl -sIL http://httpbin.apps-2.svc.cluster.local:8000
      ```

      Example output

      ```sh
      200
      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      access-control-allow-credentials: true
      access-control-allow-origin: *
      content-security-policy: default-src 'self'; style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'; img-src 'self' camo.githubusercontent.com
      content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8
      date: Wed, 18 Jun 2025 09:20:55 GMT
      x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 14
      server: envoy
      transfer-encoding: chunked
      ```

    - Verify `httpbin` workload certificate matches what is expected:
    - Verify that apps-2/sleep can access the apps-1/httpbin service:

      ```sh

>       istioctl proxy-config secret -n sample $(oc get pods -n sample -o jsonpath='{.items..metadata.name}' --selector app=httpbin) -o json | jq -r '.dynamicActiveSecrets[0].secret.tlsCertificate.certificateChain.inlineBytes' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -text -noout

Reviewer: I missed this during first review, this is still useful to have it here. It's showing that the issuer of the cert is cert-manager.

Author: Done
